Pillars:
Teamwork
Stealth
Exploration

Inksplat Design Document


Working Tile: Inksplat


Current Status: Currently Inksplat is in a design phase. The main ink shooting mechanic has a prototype that works. Players can shoot a projectile that applies a color splotch to any mesh. This also works in an online multiplayer environment. Game modes and activities utilizing this mechanic are being designed currently. 


Concept: Inksplat is a competitive 3V3 multiplayer arena sports game where two teams made up of specialized roles compete to make the world in their own color in a completely invisible space. It is a quick pickup game that can be played in multiple ways depending on the role you choose to play in the team. Gameplay plays out as a mix of FPS style shooting, hide-and-seek, and ball sports.


Genre: Inksplat is a multiplayer arena sports game that mixes first person shooting and ball sports. 


Target Audience: Inksplat will appeal to those who like communicating with others to pull off feats of teamwork only possible with careful coordination. This group is people who enjoy games such as Rocket League, Overwatch,  Counter Strike, and Valorant. 


Detailed Concept: All assets including player models are completely invisible at the start of the game. Players can reveal the level geometry and other players by shooting paint projectiles. Points are only scored by applying paint to the skybox, which is pure white at the start of play. Paint can be applied to the skybox in two ways, the first is to cover a player from the opposite team with enough paint that it causes a color explosion sending paint into the sky. The player that explodes is then reverted back to their invisible state. The other method is an orb can be uncovered somewhere in the level. Once the orb is activated by shooting it with paint a player can pick it up starting the second mode of play. Once the orb is picked up, that player can no longer shoot paint, but they gain movement buffs and are moved to a third person camera. Movement buffs include faster move speed by at least 1.2X [a]base movement speed, and an air dash. While holding the orb the player’s body is charged with paint until the player will explode in a large paint explosion covering the sky with their paint color. To prevent this from happening if the other team is able to cover the player with the orb with enough paint they will cause that player to drop the orb and disable their movement for a fraction of a second. Enough time for the other team to gain possession of the orb. The orb will be in play until a color explosion occurs, then the orb will be removed from the game until a new one spawns in. An orb explosion will give 5X [b]the number of points a standard “kill” will give. This is the core gameplay loop of the game, players search for the orb and in the process may score some points when encountering other players. Once the orb is in play all players should focus on getting it to work in favor of their team since it is so valuable. 




Character Classes (Subject to change with prototypes) : Each team will be made up of 3 players each with their own role to play. Each class has three abilities. 
        Seeker: This is the most vulnerable of all the classes. They are intended to stay hidden and avoid other players as much as possible. They are equipped with two abilities. One ability allows them to fire a projectile in an arc similar to a grenade. When it hits part of the level geometry it sends out a way of color that travels outward for 5 meters[c]. This color is not permanent and expires as the wave travels. This ability does not apply paint to other players, but it may reveal them briefly. This ability is mostly focused on finding the orb within the level. It has a relatively high cool down and can only be used once every 3 seconds[d]. Seekers must be careful when using this ability as it may give away their position to other players. The other ability seekers possess is more offensive. They have an ability to shoot paint much like a small side arm. There is no automatic fire and there is a fraction of second between each shot. Essentially seekers have a pistol that can’t fire as fast as the player can push the fire button. The result splat is smaller than splats from players with more powerful offensive capabilities. Seekers also have a faster base movement speed than the other two classes, and must focus on sneaking and outwitting their opponents. In an effort to aid a seeker’s goal of remaining hidden they have one more ability on a slow cooldown (60 seconds[e]) that allows them to shed any paint that has been applied to their character. The paint will drip off the player forming a puddle on the ground.
        Defender: This role should play and strategize closely with the seeker. Since the seeker is relatively weak there is a role to help protect them. The Defender specializes in abilities to be used in close quarters. They’re main attack is a shotgun-like blast of paint, that is effective up close, but the spread is such that it’s nearly useless at range. They also have a force blast that can push players into other positions. The force blast also applies temporary paint that lasts 5 seconds[f]. This ability will prove useful when an orb is in play. The force blast can be used on members of their own team to give them an extra push to get them out of danger’s way. Finally their last ability on a long cool down is a cloak they can drape themselves in that will take all paint shots, so they essentially have a brief moment of invincibility. Time frames and cooldowns TBD based on prototype
        Hunter: The seeker and defender roles are intrinsically linked. The seeker is vulnerable and requires a protector. These two roles need to closely coordinate for success and that leaves room for a third combat focused role: a hunter. The hunter role is tasked with finding the seeker and putting a stop to them, or attempting to take out the defender and leave the seeker vulnerable. The hunter kind of has free will how they want to operate and is a kind of everyman. Although their kit is very much geared towards combat. Their weapon is a rapid fire machine gun with good range. The Hunter’s first ability allows them to reveal player positions in a radius around themselves. Player positions are revealed as a ghost at their last known position. However geometry remains hidden, and player movement is drastically slowed down. This ability is designed to be used to scout positions. The hunter also cannot shoot while using this mode. Additionally, FOV is reduced as if the player is looking through a scope. The ability is active for as long as the player holds the button, and cool down does not begin until the player deactivates the ability. Cooldown is 10 seconds long. The hunter also possesses a teleport ability on a long cooldown (60s[g]). The teleport will spread some paint in the area the player arrives at, to alert other players. This paint cannot be used as an attack, because it could be too powerful an attack.


Musical Mechanics: (First Draft of idea, must be revised) In line with the theme about gods creating a new universe from scratch, I think the music should follow suit. It is a dynamic track that plays certain sounds for various player actions. As a player shoots one track plays, if multiple players are shooting simultaneously those tracks form a tune. Major abilities will have a clear sound effect that fits into the music that are tell-tale audio cues that alert players to what is going on out of sight. Enemy team’s abilities will have a similar audio cue, but will sound discordant so they stick out.
        




[a]Subject to change
[b]Number is subject to change based on balancing
[c]Subject to change
[d]Subject to change
[e]subject to change
[f]Subject to change
[g]Subject to change